Mr. President of the European Bank, dear Mario Draghi.
Mr. President of the Republic, dear Sergio.
Madam the Chancellor, dear Angela.
Mr. President of the L'Hondes.
Madam President, the elected President of the European Commission, dear Ursula.
Madam President, the designated President of the European Bank, dear Christine.
Ladies and gentlemen, the Commission, and the governors.
Mesdames and messieurs, chers amis.
If we are so many today in Francfort, around you, cher Mario.
It is not only to celebrate a mandate well-managed by the President of the European Central Bank.
What is gathering us today is far above the cadre of monetary policy.
I will leave, by the way, to others, more qualified than me.
And to look and to extend the immense heritage that you have left in the matter.
What we celebrate above all today is the action of a man who has brought up very high the European dream.
And who has brought it in this institution.
Who has shown, during the financial crisis, all his solidity, his robustiveness.
A man who has been, in his discourse and his decisions, a dignified heritage of the founding of Europe.
This affiliation, dear Mario, places you in the steps of Jean Monet, Robert Schumann, Conrad Adenauer.
And of your illustrious compatriots, Alcide Gaspéry and Altiero Spinelli.
In Milan, a few weeks ago, you pronounced one of these discourses that have marked your mandate.
And that are now engraved in the stone that builds Europe.
To the students of the Catholic University who were giving you a prize.
You evoked three qualities that make a good public decision maker.
Knowledge, courage, and humility.
These qualities, dear Mario, you have honored and incarnated them here.
You have gained knowledge through academic formation and exceptional professional experience.
You have constantly sought it with the most brilliant researchers in economics.
And you have transmitted it through your research and your conferences.
This expertise, recognized by all, has been crucial to establish your intellectual authority.
With your peers, market observers, and well beyond.